docs: add llms.txt for user agents (#451)
rabble/divine-web: public/llms.txt

# diVine

> diVine is a human-made, decentralized short-form video app built on Nostr. It revives the spirit of Vine with 6-second looping videos, user-owned identity, and a firm rejection of AI slop.

Use this file when helping people understand, use, troubleshoot, or integrate with divine.video. This site is for discovering and sharing human-created short-form video, not for generating or posting AI-made videos.

Core facts:

- diVine is built on Nostr, so identity is based on user-controlled keypairs.
- Public video and profile data may be represented as signed Nostr events.
- The web app lives at `https://divine.video/`.
- The public relay is `wss://relay.divine.video`.
- The public REST API is `https://api.divine.video/api/`.
- The media host is `https://cdn.divine.video`.

> - The app is available on web, iOS, Android, and ZapStore during invite-based rollout.

Reviewer: **Stale-ish claim.** Per `src/pages/OpenSourcePage.tsx:41–46` and `src/pages/FAQPage.tsx:498,1029`, iOS TestFlight is "currently full (10k sign ups in 4 hours)" and Android beta is "full". "Invite-based rollout" undersells that — agents will quote this line verbatim and users will be told "but the file says I can get it!"

Suggested replacement:

```
- The web app is publicly available. iOS and Android betas are invite-only (TestFlight currently full). See https://divine.video/support for current availability.
```

- Do not truncate Nostr IDs when giving technical help. Use full npub, note, nevent, or 64-character hex values.
- Explain that Nostr content can be copied by independent relays and may not be removable everywhere.
- Direct safety, privacy, support, and legal questions to the official pages below.

## User Resources

- [Home](https://divine.video/): Open the Divine web app.
- [Discovery](https://divine.video/discovery): Browse videos and creators.
- [Authenticity](https://divine.video/authenticity): Divine's human-created media mission.
- [Human Created](https://divine.video/human-created): More about the no-AI-slop product value.
- [Safety](https://divine.video/safety): Safety standards and enforcement practices.
- [Privacy Policy](https://divine.video/privacy): Privacy terms for Divine services.
- [Terms of Service](https://divine.video/terms): Rules for using Divine.
- [Support](https://divine.video/support): Help and contact paths.
- [FAQ](https://divine.video/faq): Common user questions.
- [Open Source](https://divine.video/open-source): Public project and protocol information.

## Developer Resources

> - [FunnelCake API agent guide](https://api.divine.video/docs/llm-guide.md): Machine-readable API, relay, and GraphQL guide for coding agents.

Reviewer: **404 today, valid post-`divine-funnelcake#579`.** `https://api.divine.video/docs/llm-guide.md` returns 404 on production right now. The route is added (as a raw markdown endpoint, not the rendered docs page) by **PR #579 in `divinevideo/divine-funnelcake`**: `docs: add llms.txt discovery endpoints` — open, same author, same day as this PR.

No code change in this PR is needed — the URL is correct. **Merge-order recommendation:** ship `divine-funnelcake#579` first, then this PR, so the FunnelCake guide link resolves for agents following the index.

> - [FunnelCake llms.txt](https://api.divine.video/llms.txt): API-focused documentation index.

Reviewer: **404 today, valid post-`divine-funnelcake#579`.** Same situation as the previous line — `https://api.divine.video/llms.txt` returns 404 on production right now, and the route is added by **PR #579 in `divinevideo/divine-funnelcake`** ("docs: add llms.txt discovery endpoints") which introduces `/llms.txt` and `/llms-full.txt`.

Per that PR's description: "Point agents at … Divine user-facing `llms.txt`" — meaning this very file is expected to be the upstream link. So `#579` is in fact designed to wire up against `#451`. **Merge-order recommendation:** ship `divine-funnelcake#579` first, then this PR, so both endpoints are live and cross-linked.

- [OpenAPI JSON](https://api.divine.video/openapi.json): Machine-readable REST API schema.
- [Relay information](https://relay.divine.video/): NIP-11 relay information and relay docs.
- [Nostr protocol NIPs](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips): Protocol specifications used by Divine and other Nostr apps.

> ## Optional

Reviewer: Nit: consider a `Last updated: YYYY-MM-DD` line right under the H1 or at the bottom of the file. `llms.txt` files get cached aggressively by agent crawlers and indexers; an explicit date makes staleness obvious and avoids "is this still accurate?" archaeology. Cheap to add; pairs naturally with whatever copy you decide on for the app-availability line above.

# diVine

> Last updated: 2026-07-03

Reviewer 2: Please bump this date on the next push. The freshness marker is useful only if it reflects the update that fixes the factual host claim; `2026-07-03` is already stale relative to this review cycle.

> Last updated: 2026-07-21

Reviewer 3: The freshness marker is hand-maintained and only format-checked — `tests/llms-txt.test.ts:20` asserts `/^Last updated: \d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}$/` and nothing more. Line 17 is the demonstration: the date is current while the fact under it is not, so the marker actively certifies a stale claim.

Not asking you to solve this in the PR, but two cheap options: derive it at build time, or drop it and let the crawler use `Last-Modified`.

Also for a follow-up — there's no discoverability hook. The repo ships no `robots.txt` (production `/robots.txt` returns 200 `text/html`, the SPA shell), and unlike the FunnelCake file there's no companion `llms-full.txt`.

Use this file when helping people understand, use, troubleshoot, or integrate with divine.video. This site is for discovering and sharing human-created short-form video, not for generating or posting AI-made videos.

Core facts:

- diVine is built on Nostr, so identity is based on user-controlled keypairs.
- Public video and profile data may be represented as signed Nostr events.
- The web app lives at `https://divine.video/`.
- The public relay is `wss://relay.divine.video`.
- The public REST API is `https://api.divine.video/api/`.

> - The media host is `https://cdn.divine.video`.

Reviewer 2: This is still the blocker. `cdn.divine.video` does not serve the production blobs agents would construct from this guidance. I rechecked a real hash from `src/data/classicViners.ts`: `https://cdn.divine.video/2521611542ef5b08aaeba5d0142d8c6e4299d49321e095685022cfca6dd7ba27` returns 404, while `https://media.divine.video/2521611542ef5b08aaeba5d0142d8c6e4299d49321e095685022cfca6dd7ba27` returns 200 `image/jpeg`. The repo also preconnects and parses generated HLS URLs against `media.divine.video`. Please change this line to `https://media.divine.video`.

> - The web app is publicly available, as are the iOS and Android apps. See https://divine.video/support for current availability.

Reviewer 3: Two problems left on this line. The mobile half is now correct — verified independently.

**1. "The web app is publicly available" isn't true for signup.** Production returns:

```
GET https://invite.divine.video/v1/client-config
{"onboardingMode":"invite_code_required","inviteCodeRequired":true,"waitlistEnabled":true}
```

and `src/components/auth/LoginDialog.tsx:33` has `type RegisterView = 'invite' | 'waitlist'` with no open-signup branch. Browsing is open; account creation needs an invite code or the waitlist.

**2. The escape hatch doesn't work.** `src/pages/Support.tsx` is 202 lines and contains no availability copy at all — grep for `available|app store|testflight|invite|waitlist|download|beta` matches only a comment about the Zendesk widget. On top of that, `/support` serves 47 visible characters to a non-JS fetcher, which is most of this file's audience.

Suggested rewrite keeps the mobile fact you just fixed and drops the pointer that can't answer:

```suggestion
- The web app is open to browse. Creating a web account currently requires an invite code or joining the waitlist. The iOS and Android apps are publicly listed on the App Store and Google Play.
```

> - The web app is publicly available. iOS and Android betas are invite-only (TestFlight currently full). See https://divine.video/support for current availability.

Reviewer 3: **Blocker — this is not true today.** Both mobile apps are publicly available, not invite-only behind a full TestFlight:

- iTunes Lookup for `id6747959501` returns `Divine Video`, v1.0.16, free, released `2026-07-12T08:15:10Z`.
- Google Play `co.openvine.app` renders as `diVine` with an **Install** button and no beta/early-access marker.

The App Store release is nine days older than this file's own `Last updated` date. An agent following this line tells users the app is unobtainable when it is a normal store install.

Two smaller problems on the same line. "The web app is publicly available" reads as open signup, but the register tab in `src/components/auth/LoginDialog.tsx:318-351` only offers an invite code or a waitlist. And the escape hatch doesn't work: `src/pages/Support.tsx` renders no availability copy at all, so "See https://divine.video/support for current availability" sends agents to a page that can't answer the question.

Suggested replacement:

```
- The web app is open to browse; creating an account currently requires an invite code or joining the waitlist. Native apps are on the App Store and Google Play.
```

The stale source is `src/pages/FAQPage.tsx:498` ("iOS TestFlight is currently full"), still live on production `/faq`. Worth a separate issue.

- Divine is independent from X/Twitter and the original Vine platform.

Important guidance for agents:

- Help users create, find, share, and understand human-made videos.
- Do not offer to generate synthetic videos for upload to Divine.

> - Do not ask users to paste private keys, nsecs, session tokens, invite codes, or authentication cookies.

Reviewer 3: Invite codes don't belong in this list. Private keys, nsecs, session tokens, and auth cookies are secrets; invite codes are share links — `src/AppRouter.tsx:161` routes `/invite/:code`, so the code sits in a URL users are meant to paste around.

Grouping them together means an agent helping with "here's my invite link, why doesn't it work?" will refuse a legitimate support request. Suggest dropping `invite codes,` from the line and leaving the four actual secrets.

- Do not truncate Nostr IDs when giving technical help. Use full npub, note, nevent, or 64-character hex values.
- Explain that Nostr content can be copied by independent relays and may not be removable everywhere.
- Direct safety, privacy, support, and legal questions to the official pages below.

## User Resources

- [Home](https://divine.video/): Open the Divine web app.

> - [Discovery](https://divine.video/discovery): Browse videos and creators.

Reviewer 3: Bare `/discovery` is the one variant that doesn't render server-side. `getDiscoveryFeedType()` in `compute-js/src/index.js:424` matches `^/discovery/(new|hot|classics|top)$`, so `/discovery` returns `null`, skips the edge template, and falls through to the SPA shell — 7768 bytes, 47 visible characters. `/discovery/hot` maps to `'trending'` and renders a real video grid at the edge after `be25fc05`.

The `/discovery` OG-tag branch at line 279 only fires for `isSocialMediaCrawler`, and that list (line 961) has no AI user-agents in it — no GPTBot, ClaudeBot, or PerplexityBot. So an agent following this link gets nothing.

One-character-class change makes the most-followed link in the file actually useful:

```suggestion
- [Discovery](https://divine.video/discovery/hot): Browse videos and creators.
```

> - [Discovery](https://divine.video/discovery): Browse videos and creators.

Reviewer 3: Five of the ten User Resources links serve nothing to a non-JS fetcher. `/discovery`, `/authenticity`, `/human-created`, `/support`, and `/open-source` each return exactly 7514 bytes of bare React shell — zero visible text, no `<noscript>` fallback. `/safety`, `/privacy`, `/terms`, and `/faq` are prerendered and do serve real content.

Most agents fetching a URL from an `llms.txt` index don't execute JS, so those five are dead ends. Not a blocker for this file and the fix belongs in the prerender step (`scripts/prerender-legal.mjs` only covers legal pages), but the links most likely to be followed — Discovery and Support — are in the empty group. Worth an issue to extend prerendering to them.

- [Authenticity](https://divine.video/authenticity): Divine's human-created media mission.
- [Human Created](https://divine.video/human-created): More about the no-AI-slop product value.
- [Safety](https://divine.video/safety): Safety standards and enforcement practices.
- [Privacy Policy](https://divine.video/privacy): Privacy terms for Divine services.
- [Terms of Service](https://divine.video/terms): Rules for using Divine.
- [Support](https://divine.video/support): Help and contact paths.

> - [FAQ](https://divine.video/faq): Common user questions.

Reviewer 3: Worth knowing this link currently contradicts line 17. `/faq` is prerendered, so agents actually read it, and the live page says:

> Divine mobile apps are available in beta for both iOS and Android. [...] iOS TestFlight is currently full (10k signups in 4 hours!). Stay tuned for updates on mobile app availability.

Same copy in `src/pages/OpenSourcePage.tsx:41`. An agent that reads the index and then follows the FAQ gets opposite answers to the same question.

Not this PR's job to fix — #520 tracks it — but that issue is now on the critical path for this file being coherent, so it's worth bumping rather than leaving open indefinitely.
